---
layout: single
title: Quick way to protect your career or business
excerpt: "Only the paranoid survive."
header:
 overlay_image: /assets/images/paranoid.jpeg
 overlay_filter: 0.5
 caption: "Photo credit: [**Bartosz Sujkowski**](http://www.lemonbird.pl/)"
 actions:
 - label: "Subscribe"
 url: "http://eepurl.com/g7u8ez"
date: 2020-08-16
author_profile: true
share: true 
category: lessons
tags:
 - tools
 - business
---
# Only the paranoid survive

You have to always be on guard to the changes that can impact your career or business. Those who are blind to the current of evolutions are bound to get swept by the rapid movements in life. 

This is the mantra for all businesses to survive.

If you’re working a 9-5, this applies to you too. Your career is your business and you own it as a sole proprietor. You’re your own employer, and you’re competing with millions of similar businesses — all other employees.

## Always keep your ears to the ground

Listen to the whisper in the wind.

You must keep your ears opened to the comments even from those who constantly criticise you, such as your colleagues, true friends and people who have nothing to lose by giving you brutal and honest feedback. 

Be harsh on yourself so you will know where you need to improve. 

## The 6 forces of business on competitiveness

Michael Porter, the business strategy expert, identified 6 forces that impact a company’s competitive advantage.

The 6 forces are:

1. *Competitors*

- Are there many competitors? Do they have an edge that you don’t?

2. *Complementors*

- These are businesses that complement your products. E.g. phones and apps, cars and fuel. Your products support each other when your interests are aligned.

3. ***Customers***

- What’s the market size? Are you relying on just a few big customers? 

4. *Suppliers*

- Are there many options or are they so few that your suppliers hold you by the throat?

5. *Potential competitors*

- These are market players that you either wrote off or aren’t aware of.

6. *Disruptors* 

- These are market players that have the potential of doing your business but in an entirely different way.

All of these forces impact your competitiveness. 

The deadliest force of all? — Disruptors

A disruptor is able to amplify the 6 forces so much that it changes the rules of the game.

## 10x change

There comes a time that your industry will experience a 10x change. This is the force that alters your whole understanding.

When 10x change occurs, you arrive at the strategic inflection point.

## Strategic inflection point

This is the point where you have to act in response to a 10x change.

You will have have to re-evaluate your whole strategy. The old will disappear to give way to the new. 

After a business goes through a strategic inflection point, it’s profoundly changed and never to change back again.

It’s hard to pinpoint the moment it happens. 

But there are some clues.

**First clue**
- There’s a troubling sense that something is different, things don’t work the way they used to. Customers are responding differently, and competitors you underestimated are stealing business from you.

**Second clue**
- There’s a growing dissonance between what your company thinks it’s doing and what’s actually happening within the company. 

**Third clue**
- A new framework and set of understandings will surface. 

It’s like walking into a valley of death, everybody walks in but not everyone will come out alive.

### Examples

Strategic inflection point can come from multiple sources:

- New technology 
- Overwhelming competition
- Change in supplier power
- Change in complementors
- Change in regulation

## What to do in a strategic inflection point? 

**Step 1** — accept your emotions when you face a changing reality. Don’t panic and embrace the change. Then you can think clearly and consider the nature of the change.

**Step 2** — let chaos take over. Listen to the opinions from internal and external parties. Draw a map of the new industry disrupted by the chaos. Keep upgrading yourself and your business.

**Step 3** — take over chaos. Once you have a direction, execute the plan relentlessly. Remember that not everyone will stay throughout the battle, but those who remain will help you win the ultimate war. 

## Moral of the story

Be on a constatant lookout for 10x changes in your career and business. Be honest with yourself and gather feedback. Always evaluate if any changes would affect your employer, the value of your skills or the hiring scene.

Don’t push your responsibility to your boss or your customers. Take charge of your life.

## Learn more

These are key lessons in Only the Paranoid Survive by Andrew Grove. 

If you want to future proof your career or business, study the book thoroughly to be ready for any disruption.

Keep your ears to the ground.

Only the paranoid survive.