---
layout: single
title: Don’t let your dreams die
excerpt: "Find tools here to learn a skill fast."
header:
 overlay_image: /assets/images/General.jpeg
 overlay_filter: 0.5
 caption: "Photo credit: [**Patrick Tomasso**](https://www.instagram.com/impatrickt/)"
 actions:
 - label: "Subscribe"
 url: "http://eepurl.com/g7u8ez"
date: 2020-07-18
author_profile: true
share: true 
category: lessons
tags:
 - tools
 - money
 - fitness
 - productivity
---

# Thanks for stopping by

If you’re here, you and I are quite alike.

We share similar dreams and I’m glad we’re on this journey.

Let’s get financially independent.

Let’s get into the best shape of our lives.

Let’s stop denying the world of what we can really contribute. 

Let’s learn so we can bring our dreams to life. 

Together.

Read on and rock on.

# Why is there so much to learn to get richer, fitter and smarter? 

Too much to learn, too little time? 

If you’ve ever found yourself in this conundrum then we are sailing on the same boat. 

When you don’t have a learning system, you are always sifting through the fluff just to learn a skill. 

A skill is a means to an end.

If your end goal is to live a wealthier, healthier and wiser life, learning faster will speed up your progress in getting to your destination. 

# Money | Fitness | Productivity

When I started self-education, I wished there was a place where lessons were compressed into tools that I could use right away for topics I cared most about — **money, fitness and productivity.** 

So I built this site.

Welcome to the Distill Institute. I break down the skills to help you get richer, fitter and smarter into simple building blocks so you can save time and focus on what matters.

## Enter DSSS — The learning system

When it comes to learning, I found that the most effective way is the DSSS method by Tim Ferriss. 

**D**econstruction
**S**election
**S**equencing
**S**takes 

### Step 1: Deconstruction

Pick the skill apart.

Break it down into learning blocks.

Find out the minimum blocks you need to learn the skill.

This helps to simplify a skill that seems complicated.

### Step 2: Selection

Apply the Pareto Law.

Find out the 20% of learning blocks that will give you 80% of the results.

These are the smallest actions that have the biggest effects.

Example: if you’re looking to be fitter, doing a 5-minute kettlebell swing 3x/week goes a long way.

Remember: this tool is for learning, mastery comes later.

### Step 3: Sequencing

Which learning blocks should you focus on first?

Prioritise the selected 20% learning blocks.

Start with the most impactful fundamentals and it will save you from wasting time and feeling overwhelmed.

Example: in tango, if you learn to lead with your chest instead of pushing your partner with your hands, you’ll be way ahead of other beginners. 

### Stakes

Commit to real consequences and don’t tempt your self-discipline.

Set a definite goal and a punishment that hurts if you don’t follow the plan.

It can be a bet with friends or keep yourself in check by announcing your plan publicly.

### In short, learning can be sped up with:

1. Deconstruction
2. Selection
3. Sequencing
4. Stakes

Use these 4 tools to learn the skills you’ve always wanted.

You’ll save time.

You’ll acquire a skill faster and better.

And you can bring your dreams to life.

# Your gain is my pleasure

If even one person can take away one tool from this blog to get richer, fitter or smarter, then all my time, money and effort into building the Distill Institute would have been worth it.

I post every Monday to start your week. Every Tuesday, I send a newsletter to share tools I curate that will add value to your life. 

[Join the 3-Tool Tuesday newsletter.](https://distillinstitute.com/subscribe/)

There are many self-improvement blogs out there, but this one is mine.

Thanks for being here with me.

We’re all fighting against the war against resistance together.

The resistance that stands between us and our dreams coming to life.

Don’t lose to resistance.

Don’t let your dreams die.

I’ve got your back.
